# TryHackMe-SOC-L1-Alert-Triage
🔗 [SOC L1 Alert Triage Room Link](https://tryhackme.com/room/socl1alerttriage)

## Objective

The SOC L1 Alert Triage project aims to develop a comprehensive understanding of Security Operations Center (SOC) alerts, including their fields, statuses, and classifications. The project also provides hands-on experience performing alert triage as a Level 1 (L1) analyst, working with real alerts and standard SOC workflows.

### Skills Learned

- Strong understanding of how alerts are generated when a specific event or sequence of events occurs.
- Proficiency in alert properties such as time, name, severity, status, etc.
- Ability to prioritize alerts.
- Ability to perform alert triage.

### Tools Used

- TryHackMe SIEM

## Tasks
- Events, which can be a user login, process launch, or file download. Then, the system must log the event. All system logs are then shipped to a security solution like SIEM or EDR.
- Alerts, which are notifications generated by a security solution when a specific event or sequence of events occurs
- Reviewed an example of an alert and focused on its properties including the event and alert times, alert name (Double extension file creation), severity (🟠 High / Severe), status (🆕 New / Unassigned), and more.
- Learned how to pick the right alerts when there are hundreds. Take only the new, unresolved alerts. When it comes to severity, start with critical alerts, then high, medium, and finally low. When it comes to time, start with the oldest alerts and end with the newest ones.
- More tasks coming soon.
